Hugging Face 주간 인기 논문 Top 10 (2025-W41) - 번역본
출처: https://huggingface.co/papers/week/2025-W41

--- 1. Less is More: Recursive Reasoning with Tiny Networks ---
Link: https://huggingface.co/papers/2510.04871

## Abstract (Original)
Hierarchical Reasoning Model (HRM) is a novel approach using two small neural
networks recursing at different frequencies. This biologically inspired method
beats Large Language models (LLMs) on hard puzzle tasks such as Sudoku, Maze,
and ARC-AGI while trained with small models (27M parameters) on small data
(around 1000 examples). HRM holds great promise for solving hard problems with
small networks, but it is not yet well understood and may be suboptimal. We
propose Tiny Recursive Model (TRM), a much simpler recursive reasoning approach
that achieves significantly higher generalization than HRM, while using a
single tiny network with only 2 layers. With only 7M parameters, TRM obtains
45% test-accuracy on ARC-AGI-1 and 8% on ARC-AGI-2, higher than most LLMs
(e.g., Deepseek R1, o3-mini, Gemini 2.5 Pro) with less than 0.01% of the
parameters.

## 초록 (Korean)
번역 중 오류 발생: 3번의 시도 후에도 네트워크 연결에 실패했습니다.

--- 2. Agent Learning via Early Experience ---
Link: https://huggingface.co/papers/2510.08558

## Abstract (Original)
A long-term goal of language agents is to learn and improve through their own
experience, ultimately outperforming humans in complex, real-world tasks.
However, training agents from experience data with reinforcement learning
remains difficult in many environments, which either lack verifiable rewards
(e.g., websites) or require inefficient long-horizon rollouts (e.g., multi-turn
tool use). As a result, most current agents rely on supervised fine-tuning on
expert data, which is challenging to scale and generalizes poorly. This
limitation stems from the nature of expert demonstrations: they capture only a
narrow range of scenarios and expose the agent to limited environment
diversity. We address this limitation with a middle-ground paradigm we call
early experience: interaction data generated by the agent's own actions, where
the resulting future states serve as supervision without reward signals. Within
this paradigm we study two strategies of using such data: (1) Implicit world
modeling, which uses collected states to ground the policy in environment
dynamics; and (2) Self-reflection, where the agent learns from its suboptimal
actions to improve reasoning and decision-making. We evaluate across eight
diverse environments and multiple model families. Our approaches consistently
improve effectiveness and out-of-domain generalization, highlighting the value
of early experience. Moreover, in environments with verifiable rewards, our
results provide promising signals that early experience offers a strong
foundation for subsequent reinforcement learning, positioning it as a practical
bridge between imitation learning and fully experience-driven agents.

## 초록 (Korean)
번역 중 오류 발생: 3번의 시도 후에도 네트워크 연결에 실패했습니다.

--- 3. Apriel-1.5-15b-Thinker ---
Link: https://huggingface.co/papers/2510.01141

## Abstract (Original)
We present Apriel-1.5-15B-Thinker, a 15-billion parameter open-weights
multimodal reasoning model that achieves frontier-level performance through
training design rather than sheer scale. Starting from Pixtral-12B, we apply a
progressive three-stage methodology: (1) depth upscaling to expand reasoning
capacity without pretraining from scratch, (2) staged continual pre-training
that first develops foundational text and vision understanding, then enhances
visual reasoning through targeted synthetic data generation addressing spatial
structure, compositional understanding, and fine-grained perception, and (3)
high-quality text-only supervised fine-tuning on curated instruction-response
pairs with explicit reasoning traces spanning mathematics, coding, science, and
tool use. Notably, our model achieves competitive results without reinforcement
learning or preference optimization, isolating the contribution of our
data-centric continual pre-training approach. On the Artificial Analysis
Intelligence Index, Apriel-1.5-15B-Thinker attains a score of 52, matching
DeepSeek-R1-0528 despite requiring significantly fewer computational resources.
Across ten image benchmarks, its performance is on average within five points
of Gemini-2.5-Flash and Claude Sonnet-3.7, a key achievement for a model
operating within single-GPU deployment constraints. Our results demonstrate
that thoughtful mid-training 2 design can close substantial capability gaps
without massive scale, making frontier-level multimodal reasoning accessible to
organizations with limited infrastructure. We release the model checkpoint, all
training recipes, and evaluation protocols under the MIT license to to advance
open-source research.

## 초록 (Korean)
번역 중 오류 발생: 3번의 시도 후에도 네트워크 연결에 실패했습니다.

--- 4. MM-HELIX: Boosting Multimodal Long-Chain Reflective Reasoning with
  Holistic Platform and Adaptive Hybrid Policy Optimization ---
Link: https://huggingface.co/papers/2510.08540

## Abstract (Original)
While current Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLMs) have demonstrated
proficiency in reasoning tasks such as mathematics and logic, their capacity
for long-chain reflective reasoning, a prerequisite for solving complex
real-world problems, remains largely underexplored. In this work, we first
conduct an extensive empirical investigation to evaluate this capability.
Leveraging a carefully designed data synthesis engine, we construct MM-HELIX, a
multimodal benchmark consisting 1,260 samples of 42 challenging synthetic tasks
that require iterative thinking and backtracking. Empirical results on this
benchmark reveal that existing MLLMs exhibit significant performance deficits
in long-chain reflective reasoning. To address this limitation, we generate
post-training data and further explore learning paradigms for exploiting such
data. We first develop the Step-Elicited Response Generation pipeline to create
MM-HELIX-100K, a large-scale dataset of 100k high-quality, reflective reasoning
traces for instruction-tuning stage. Given that standard Reinforcement Learning
fails on complex tasks due to sparse reward signals and catastrophic forgetting
after Supervised Fine-Tuning, we propose Adaptive Hybrid Policy Optimization
(AHPO), a novel training strategy that dynamically unifies offline supervision
and online optimization into a single stage. This strategy enables the model to
learn from expert data when rewards are sparse and conduct independent
exploration once proficient. When applied to the Qwen2.5-VL-7B baseline, our
method achieves a +18.6\% accuracy improvement on MM-HELIX benchmark and
demonstrates strong generalization with a +5.7\% average performance gain on
general mathematic and logic tasks. Our work demonstrate that reflective
reasoning in MLLMs can be effectively learned and generalized, paving the way
for developing more capable MLLMs.

## 초록 (Korean)
번역 중 오류 발생: 3번의 시도 후에도 네트워크 연결에 실패했습니다.

--- 5. Paper2Video: Automatic Video Generation from Scientific Papers ---
Link: https://huggingface.co/papers/2510.05096

## Abstract (Original)
Academic presentation videos have become an essential medium for research
communication, yet producing them remains highly labor-intensive, often
requiring hours of slide design, recording, and editing for a short 2 to 10
minutes video. Unlike natural video, presentation video generation involves
distinctive challenges: inputs from research papers, dense multi-modal
information (text, figures, tables), and the need to coordinate multiple
aligned channels such as slides, subtitles, speech, and human talker. To
address these challenges, we introduce PaperTalker, the first benchmark of 101
research papers paired with author-created presentation videos, slides, and
speaker metadata. We further design four tailored evaluation metrics--Meta
Similarity, PresentArena, PresentQuiz, and IP Memory--to measure how videos
convey the paper's information to the audience. Building on this foundation, we
propose PaperTalker, the first multi-agent framework for academic presentation
video generation. It integrates slide generation with effective layout
refinement by a novel effective tree search visual choice, cursor grounding,
subtitling, speech synthesis, and talking-head rendering, while parallelizing
slide-wise generation for efficiency. Experiments on Paper2Video demonstrate
that the presentation videos produced by our approach are more faithful and
informative than existing baselines, establishing a practical step toward
automated and ready-to-use academic video generation. Our dataset, agent, and
code are available at https://github.com/showlab/Paper2Video.

## 초록 (Korean)
번역 중 오류 발생: 3번의 시도 후에도 네트워크 연결에 실패했습니다.

--- 6. Agentic Context Engineering: Evolving Contexts for Self-Improving
  Language Models ---
Link: https://huggingface.co/papers/2510.04618

## Abstract (Original)
Large language model (LLM) applications such as agents and domain-specific
reasoning increasingly rely on context adaptation -- modifying inputs with
instructions, strategies, or evidence, rather than weight updates. Prior
approaches improve usability but often suffer from brevity bias, which drops
domain insights for concise summaries, and from context collapse, where
iterative rewriting erodes details over time. Building on the adaptive memory
introduced by Dynamic Cheatsheet, we introduce ACE (Agentic Context
Engineering), a framework that treats contexts as evolving playbooks that
accumulate, refine, and organize strategies through a modular process of
generation, reflection, and curation. ACE prevents collapse with structured,
incremental updates that preserve detailed knowledge and scale with
long-context models. Across agent and domain-specific benchmarks, ACE optimizes
contexts both offline (e.g., system prompts) and online (e.g., agent memory),
consistently outperforming strong baselines: +10.6% on agents and +8.6% on
finance, while significantly reducing adaptation latency and rollout cost.
Notably, ACE could adapt effectively without labeled supervision and instead by
leveraging natural execution feedback. On the AppWorld leaderboard, ACE matches
the top-ranked production-level agent on the overall average and surpasses it
on the harder test-challenge split, despite using a smaller open-source model.
These results show that comprehensive, evolving contexts enable scalable,
efficient, and self-improving LLM systems with low overhead.

## 초록 (Korean)
번역 중 오류 발생: 3번의 시도 후에도 네트워크 연결에 실패했습니다.

--- 7. Cache-to-Cache: Direct Semantic Communication Between Large Language
  Models ---
Link: https://huggingface.co/papers/2510.03215

## Abstract (Original)
Multi-LLM systems harness the complementary strengths of diverse Large
Language Models, achieving performance and efficiency gains unattainable by a
single model. In existing designs, LLMs communicate through text, forcing
internal representations to be transformed into output token sequences. This
process both loses rich semantic information and incurs token-by-token
generation latency. Motivated by these limitations, we ask: Can LLMs
communicate beyond text? Oracle experiments show that enriching the KV-Cache
semantics can improve response quality without increasing cache size,
supporting KV-Cache as an effective medium for inter-model communication. Thus,
we propose Cache-to-Cache (C2C), a new paradigm for direct semantic
communication between LLMs. C2C uses a neural network to project and fuse the
source model's KV-cache with that of the target model to enable direct semantic
transfer. A learnable gating mechanism selects the target layers that benefit
from cache communication. Compared with text communication, C2C utilizes the
deep, specialized semantics from both models, while avoiding explicit
intermediate text generation. Experiments show that C2C achieves 8.5-10.5%
higher average accuracy than individual models. It further outperforms the text
communication paradigm by approximately 3.0-5.0%, while delivering an average
2.0x speedup in latency. Our code is available at
https://github.com/thu-nics/C2C.

## 초록 (Korean)
번역 중 오류 발생: 3번의 시도 후에도 네트워크 연결에 실패했습니다.

--- 8. In-the-Flow Agentic System Optimization for Effective Planning and Tool
  Use ---
Link: https://huggingface.co/papers/2510.05592

## Abstract (Original)
Outcome-driven reinforcement learning has advanced reasoning in large
language models (LLMs), but prevailing tool-augmented approaches train a
single, monolithic policy that interleaves thoughts and tool calls under full
context; this scales poorly with long horizons and diverse tools and
generalizes weakly to new scenarios. Agentic systems offer a promising
alternative by decomposing work across specialized modules, yet most remain
training-free or rely on offline training decoupled from the live dynamics of
multi-turn interaction. We introduce AgentFlow, a trainable, in-the-flow
agentic framework that coordinates four modules (planner, executor, verifier,
generator) through an evolving memory and directly optimizes its planner inside
the multi-turn loop. To train on-policy in live environments, we propose
Flow-based Group Refined Policy Optimization (Flow-GRPO), which tackles
long-horizon, sparse-reward credit assignment by converting multi-turn
optimization into a sequence of tractable single-turn policy updates. It
broadcasts a single, verifiable trajectory-level outcome to every turn to align
local planner decisions with global success and stabilizes learning with
group-normalized advantages. Across ten benchmarks, AgentFlow with a 7B-scale
backbone outperforms top-performing baselines with average accuracy gains of
14.9% on search, 14.0% on agentic, 14.5% on mathematical, and 4.1% on
scientific tasks, even surpassing larger proprietary models like GPT-4o.
Further analyses confirm the benefits of in-the-flow optimization, showing
improved planning, enhanced tool-calling reliability, and positive scaling with
model size and reasoning turns.

## 초록 (Korean)
번역 중 오류 발생: 3번의 시도 후에도 네트워크 연결에 실패했습니다.

--- 9. DreamOmni2: Multimodal Instruction-based Editing and Generation ---
Link: https://huggingface.co/papers/2510.06679

## Abstract (Original)
Recent advancements in instruction-based image editing and subject-driven
generation have garnered significant attention, yet both tasks still face
limitations in meeting practical user needs. Instruction-based editing relies
solely on language instructions, which often fail to capture specific editing
details, making reference images necessary. Meanwhile, subject-driven
generation is limited to combining concrete objects or people, overlooking
broader, abstract concepts. To address these challenges, we propose two novel
tasks: multimodal instruction-based editing and generation. These tasks support
both text and image instructions and extend the scope to include both concrete
and abstract concepts, greatly enhancing their practical applications. We
introduce DreamOmni2, tackling two primary challenges: data creation and model
framework design. Our data synthesis pipeline consists of three steps: (1)
using a feature mixing method to create extraction data for both abstract and
concrete concepts, (2) generating multimodal instruction-based editing training
data using the editing and extraction models, and (3) further applying the
extraction model to create training data for multimodal instruction-based
editing. For the framework, to handle multi-image input, we propose an index
encoding and position encoding shift scheme, which helps the model distinguish
images and avoid pixel confusion. Additionally, we introduce joint training
with the VLM and our generation/editing model to better process complex
instructions. In addition, we have proposed comprehensive benchmarks for these
two new tasks to drive their development. Experiments show that DreamOmni2 has
achieved impressive results. Models and codes will be released.

## 초록 (Korean)
번역 중 오류 발생: 3번의 시도 후에도 네트워크 연결에 실패했습니다.

--- 10. Fathom-DeepResearch: Unlocking Long Horizon Information Retrieval and
  Synthesis for SLMs ---
Link: https://huggingface.co/papers/2509.24107

## Abstract (Original)
Tool-integrated reasoning has emerged as a key focus for enabling agentic
applications. Among these, DeepResearch Agents have gained significant
attention for their strong performance on complex, open-ended
information-seeking tasks. We introduce Fathom-DeepResearch, an agentic system
composed of two specialized models. The first is Fathom-Search-4B, a DeepSearch
model trained from Qwen3-4B and optimized for evidence-based investigation
through live web search and targeted webpage querying. Its training combines
three advances: (i) DUETQA, a 5K-sample dataset generated via multi-agent
self-play that enforces strict web-search dependence and heterogeneous source
grounding; (ii) RAPO, a zero-overhead extension of GRPO that stabilizes
multi-turn Reinforcement Learning with Verifiable Rewards through curriculum
pruning, reward-aware advantage scaling, and per-prompt replay buffers; and
(iii) a steerable step-level reward that classifies each tool call by cognitive
behavior and marginal utility, enabling explicit control over search trajectory
breadth, depth, and horizon. These improvements enable reliable extension of
tool-calling beyond 20 calls when warranted. The second is
Fathom-Synthesizer-4B, trained from Qwen3-4B, which converts multi-turn
DeepSearch traces into structured, citation-dense DeepResearch Reports for
comprehensive synthesis. Evaluated on DeepSearch benchmarks (SimpleQA, FRAMES,
WebWalker, Seal0, MuSiQue) and DeepResearch-Bench, the system achieves
state-of-the-art performance in the open-weights category while demonstrating
strong generalization to diverse reasoning tasks including HLE, AIME-25,
GPQA-Diamond, and MedQA.

## 초록 (Korean)
번역 중 오류 발생: 3번의 시도 후에도 네트워크 연결에 실패했습니다.

