Hugging Face 주간 인기 논문 Top 10 (2025-W39) - 번역본
출처: https://huggingface.co/papers/week/2025-W39

--- 1. Qwen3-Omni Technical Report ---
Link: https://huggingface.co/papers/2509.17765

## Abstract (Original)
We present Qwen3-Omni, a single multimodal model that, for the first time,
maintains state-of-the-art performance across text, image, audio, and video
without any degradation relative to single-modal counterparts. Qwen3-Omni
matches the performance of same-sized single-modal models within the Qwen
series and excels particularly on audio tasks. Across 36 audio and audio-visual
benchmarks, Qwen3-Omni achieves open-source SOTA on 32 benchmarks and overall
SOTA on 22, outperforming strong closed-source models such as Gemini-2.5-Pro,
Seed-ASR, and GPT-4o-Transcribe. Qwen3-Omni adopts a Thinker-Talker MoE
architecture that unifies perception and generation across text, images, audio,
and video, yielding fluent text and natural real-time speech. It supports text
interaction in 119 languages, speech understanding in 19 languages, and speech
generation in 10 languages. To reduce first-packet latency in streaming
synthesis, Talker autoregressively predicts discrete speech codecs using a
multi-codebook scheme. Leveraging the representational capacity of these
codebooks, we replace computationally intensive block-wise diffusion with a
lightweight causal ConvNet, enabling streaming from the first codec frame. In
cold-start settings, Qwen3-Omni achieves a theoretical end-to-end first-packet
latency of 234 ms. To further strengthen multimodal reasoning, we introduce a
Thinking model that explicitly reasons over inputs from any modality. Since the
research community currently lacks a general-purpose audio captioning model, we
fine-tuned Qwen3-Omni-30B-A3B to obtain Qwen3-Omni-30B-A3B-Captioner, which
produces detailed, low-hallucination captions for arbitrary audio inputs.
Qwen3-Omni-30B-A3B, Qwen3-Omni-30B-A3B-Thinking, and
Qwen3-Omni-30B-A3B-Captioner are publicly released under the Apache 2.0
license.

## 초록 (Korean)
번역 중 오류 발생: 3번의 시도 후에도 네트워크 연결에 실패했습니다.

--- 2. Baseer: A Vision-Language Model for Arabic Document-to-Markdown OCR ---
Link: https://huggingface.co/papers/2509.18174

## Abstract (Original)
Arabic document OCR remains a challenging task due to the language's cursive
script, diverse fonts, diacritics, and right-to-left orientation. While modern
Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLMs) have advanced document understanding
for high-resource languages, their performance on Arabic remains limited. In
this work, we introduce Baseer, a vision-language model fine- tuned
specifically for Arabic document OCR. Leveraging a large-scale dataset
combining synthetic and real-world documents, Baseer is trained using a
decoder-only fine-tuning strategy to adapt a pre-trained MLLM while preserving
general visual features. We also present Misraj-DocOCR, a high-quality,
expert-verified benchmark designed for rigorous evaluation of Arabic OCR
systems. Our experiments show that Baseer significantly outperforms existing
open-source and commercial solutions, achieving a WER of 0.25 and establishing
a new state-of-the-art in the domain of Arabic document OCR. Our results
highlight the benefits of domain-specific adaptation of general-purpose MLLMs
and establish a strong baseline for high-accuracy OCR on morphologically rich
languages like Arabic.

## 초록 (Korean)
번역 중 오류 발생: 3번의 시도 후에도 네트워크 연결에 실패했습니다.

--- 3. RPG: A Repository Planning Graph for Unified and Scalable Codebase
  Generation ---
Link: https://huggingface.co/papers/2509.16198

## Abstract (Original)
Large language models excel at function- and file-level code generation, yet
generating complete repositories from scratch remains a fundamental challenge.
This process demands coherent and reliable planning across proposal- and
implementation-level stages, while natural language, due to its ambiguity and
verbosity, is ill-suited for faithfully representing complex software
structures. To address this, we introduce the Repository Planning Graph (RPG),
a persistent representation that unifies proposal- and implementation-level
planning by encoding capabilities, file structures, data flows, and functions
in one graph. RPG replaces ambiguous natural language with an explicit
blueprint, enabling long-horizon planning and scalable repository generation.
Building on RPG, we develop ZeroRepo, a graph-driven framework for repository
generation from scratch. It operates in three stages: proposal-level planning
and implementation-level refinement to construct the graph, followed by
graph-guided code generation with test validation. To evaluate this setting, we
construct RepoCraft, a benchmark of six real-world projects with 1,052 tasks.
On RepoCraft, ZeroRepo produces repositories averaging nearly 36K LOC, roughly
3.9times the strongest baseline (Claude Code) and about 64times other
baselines. It attains 81.5% functional coverage and a 69.7% pass rate,
exceeding Claude Code by 27.3 and 35.8 percentage points, respectively. Further
analysis shows that RPG models complex dependencies, enables progressively more
sophisticated planning through near-linear scaling, and enhances LLM
understanding of repositories, thereby accelerating agent localization.

## 초록 (Korean)
번역 중 오류 발생: 3번의 시도 후에도 네트워크 연결에 실패했습니다.

--- 4. VCRL: Variance-based Curriculum Reinforcement Learning for Large
  Language Models ---
Link: https://huggingface.co/papers/2509.19803

## Abstract (Original)
Policy-based reinforcement learning currently plays an important role in
improving LLMs on mathematical reasoning tasks. However, existing rollout-based
reinforcement learning methods (GRPO, DAPO, GSPO, etc.) fail to explicitly
consider LLMs' learning ability for samples of different difficulty levels,
which is contrary to the human cognitive process of mathematical reasoning
tasks from easy to difficult. Intuitively, we find that the variance of the
rollout group's reward in RLVR partly reflects the difficulty of the current
sample for LLMs. Samples that are too easy or too difficult have a lower
variance, while samples with moderate difficulty have a higher variance. Based
on this, we propose VCRL, a curriculum reinforcement learning framework that
dynamically controls the difficulty of training samples based on the variance
of group rewards. Experiments on five mathematical benchmarks and two models
reveal the advantages of VCRL over the current LLM RL baselines.

## 초록 (Korean)
번역 중 오류 발생: 3번의 시도 후에도 네트워크 연결에 실패했습니다.

--- 5. MMR1: Enhancing Multimodal Reasoning with Variance-Aware Sampling and
  Open Resources ---
Link: https://huggingface.co/papers/2509.21268

## Abstract (Original)
Large multimodal reasoning models have achieved rapid progress, but their
advancement is constrained by two major limitations: the absence of open,
large-scale, high-quality long chain-of-thought (CoT) data, and the instability
of reinforcement learning (RL) algorithms in post-training. Group Relative
Policy Optimization (GRPO), the standard framework for RL fine-tuning, is prone
to gradient vanishing when reward variance is low, which weakens optimization
signals and impairs convergence. This work makes three contributions: (1) We
propose Variance-Aware Sampling (VAS), a data selection strategy guided by
Variance Promotion Score (VPS) that combines outcome variance and trajectory
diversity to promote reward variance and stabilize policy optimization. (2) We
release large-scale, carefully curated resources containing ~1.6M long CoT
cold-start data and ~15k RL QA pairs, designed to ensure quality, difficulty,
and diversity, along with a fully reproducible end-to-end training codebase.
(3) We open-source a family of multimodal reasoning models in multiple scales,
establishing standardized baselines for the community. Experiments across
mathematical reasoning benchmarks demonstrate the effectiveness of both the
curated data and the proposed VAS. Comprehensive ablation studies and analyses
provide further insight into the contributions of each component. In addition,
we theoretically establish that reward variance lower-bounds the expected
policy gradient magnitude, with VAS serving as a practical mechanism to realize
this guarantee. Our code, data, and checkpoints are available at
https://github.com/LengSicong/MMR1.

## 초록 (Korean)
번역 중 오류 발생: 3번의 시도 후에도 네트워크 연결에 실패했습니다.

--- 6. LIMI: Less is More for Agency ---
Link: https://huggingface.co/papers/2509.17567

## Abstract (Original)
We define Agency as the emergent capacity of AI systems to function as
autonomous agents actively discovering problems, formulating hypotheses, and
executing solutions through self-directed engagement with environments and
tools. This fundamental capability marks the dawn of the Age of AI Agency,
driven by a critical industry shift: the urgent need for AI systems that don't
just think, but work. While current AI excels at reasoning and generating
responses, industries demand autonomous agents that can execute tasks, operate
tools, and drive real-world outcomes. As agentic intelligence becomes the
defining characteristic separating cognitive systems from productive workers,
efficiently cultivating machine autonomy becomes paramount. Current approaches
assume that more data yields better agency, following traditional scaling laws
from language modeling. We fundamentally challenge this paradigm. LIMI (Less Is
More for Intelligent Agency) demonstrates that agency follows radically
different development principles. Through strategic focus on collaborative
software development and scientific research workflows, we show that
sophisticated agentic intelligence can emerge from minimal but strategically
curated demonstrations of autonomous behavior. Using only 78 carefully designed
training samples, LIMI achieves 73.5% on comprehensive agency benchmarks,
dramatically outperforming state-of-the-art models: Kimi-K2-Instruct (24.1%),
DeepSeek-V3.1 (11.9%), Qwen3-235B-A22B-Instruct (27.5%), and GLM-4.5 (45.1%).
Most strikingly, LIMI demonstrates 53.7% improvement over models trained on
10,000 samples-achieving superior agentic intelligence with 128 times fewer
samples. Our findings establish the Agency Efficiency Principle: machine
autonomy emerges not from data abundance but from strategic curation of
high-quality agentic demonstrations.

## 초록 (Korean)
번역 중 오류 발생: 3번의 시도 후에도 네트워크 연결에 실패했습니다.

--- 7. SciReasoner: Laying the Scientific Reasoning Ground Across Disciplines ---
Link: https://huggingface.co/papers/2509.21320

## Abstract (Original)
We present a scientific reasoning foundation model that aligns natural
language with heterogeneous scientific representations. The model is pretrained
on a 206B-token corpus spanning scientific text, pure sequences, and
sequence-text pairs, then aligned via SFT on 40M instructions, annealed
cold-start bootstrapping to elicit long-form chain-of-thought, and
reinforcement learning with task-specific reward shaping, which instills
deliberate scientific reasoning. It supports four capability families, covering
up to 103 tasks across workflows: (i) faithful translation between text and
scientific formats, (ii) text/knowledge extraction, (iii) property prediction,
(iv) property classification, (v) unconditional and conditional sequence
generation and design. Compared with specialist systems, our approach broadens
instruction coverage, improves cross-domain generalization, and enhances
fidelity. We detail data curation and training and show that cross-discipline
learning strengthens transfer and downstream reliability. The model, instruct
tuning datasets and the evaluation code are open-sourced at
https://huggingface.co/SciReason and
https://github.com/open-sciencelab/SciReason.

## 초록 (Korean)
번역 중 오류 발생: 3번의 시도 후에도 네트워크 연결에 실패했습니다.

--- 8. Video models are zero-shot learners and reasoners ---
Link: https://huggingface.co/papers/2509.20328

## Abstract (Original)
The remarkable zero-shot capabilities of Large Language Models (LLMs) have
propelled natural language processing from task-specific models to unified,
generalist foundation models. This transformation emerged from simple
primitives: large, generative models trained on web-scale data. Curiously, the
same primitives apply to today's generative video models. Could video models be
on a trajectory towards general-purpose vision understanding, much like LLMs
developed general-purpose language understanding? We demonstrate that Veo 3 can
solve a broad variety of tasks it wasn't explicitly trained for: segmenting
objects, detecting edges, editing images, understanding physical properties,
recognizing object affordances, simulating tool use, and more. These abilities
to perceive, model, and manipulate the visual world enable early forms of
visual reasoning like maze and symmetry solving. Veo's emergent zero-shot
capabilities indicate that video models are on a path to becoming unified,
generalist vision foundation models.

## 초록 (Korean)
번역 중 오류 발생: 3번의 시도 후에도 네트워크 연결에 실패했습니다.

--- 9. Tree Search for LLM Agent Reinforcement Learning ---
Link: https://huggingface.co/papers/2509.21240

## Abstract (Original)
Recent advances in reinforcement learning (RL) have significantly enhanced
the agentic capabilities of large language models (LLMs). In long-term and
multi-turn agent tasks, existing approaches driven solely by outcome rewards
often suffer from the problem of sparse supervision. To address the challenge,
we propose Tree-based Group Relative Policy Optimization (Tree-GRPO), a grouped
agent RL method based on tree search, where each tree node represents the
complete agent interaction step. By sharing common prefixes, the tree search
sampling increases the number of rollouts achievable within a fixed budget of
tokens or tool calls. Moreover, we find that the tree-structured trajectory
naturally allows the construction of step-wise process supervised signals even
using only the outcome reward. Based on this, Tree-GRPO estimates the grouped
relative advantages both on intra-tree and inter-tree levels. Through
theoretical analysis, we demonstrate that the objective of intra-tree level
group relative policy optimization is equivalent to that of step-level direct
preference learning. Experiments across 11 datasets and 3 types of QA tasks
demonstrate the superiority of the proposed tree-based RL over the chain-based
RL method.

## 초록 (Korean)
번역 중 오류 발생: 3번의 시도 후에도 네트워크 연결에 실패했습니다.

--- 10. Seedream 4.0: Toward Next-generation Multimodal Image Generation ---
Link: https://huggingface.co/papers/2509.20427

## Abstract (Original)
We introduce Seedream 4.0, an efficient and high-performance multimodal image
generation system that unifies text-to-image (T2I) synthesis, image editing,
and multi-image composition within a single framework. We develop a highly
efficient diffusion transformer with a powerful VAE which also can reduce the
number of image tokens considerably. This allows for efficient training of our
model, and enables it to fast generate native high-resolution images (e.g.,
1K-4K). Seedream 4.0 is pretrained on billions of text-image pairs spanning
diverse taxonomies and knowledge-centric concepts. Comprehensive data
collection across hundreds of vertical scenarios, coupled with optimized
strategies, ensures stable and large-scale training, with strong
generalization. By incorporating a carefully fine-tuned VLM model, we perform
multi-modal post-training for training both T2I and image editing tasks
jointly. For inference acceleration, we integrate adversarial distillation,
distribution matching, and quantization, as well as speculative decoding. It
achieves an inference time of up to 1.8 seconds for generating a 2K image
(without a LLM/VLM as PE model). Comprehensive evaluations reveal that Seedream
4.0 can achieve state-of-the-art results on both T2I and multimodal image
editing. In particular, it demonstrates exceptional multimodal capabilities in
complex tasks, including precise image editing and in-context reasoning, and
also allows for multi-image reference, and can generate multiple output images.
This extends traditional T2I systems into an more interactive and
multidimensional creative tool, pushing the boundary of generative AI for both
creativity and professional applications. Seedream 4.0 is now accessible on
https://www.volcengine.com/experience/ark?launch=seedream.

## 초록 (Korean)
번역 중 오류 발생: 3번의 시도 후에도 네트워크 연결에 실패했습니다.

