Hugging Face 주간 인기 논문 Top 10 (2025-W42) - 번역본
출처: https://huggingface.co/papers/week/2025-W42

--- 1. QeRL: Beyond Efficiency -- Quantization-enhanced Reinforcement Learning
  for LLMs ---
Link: https://huggingface.co/papers/2510.11696

## Abstract (Original)
We propose QeRL, a Quantization-enhanced Reinforcement Learning framework for
large language models (LLMs). While RL is essential for LLMs' reasoning
capabilities, it is resource-intensive, requiring substantial GPU memory and
long rollout durations. QeRL addresses these issues by combining NVFP4
quantization with Low-Rank Adaptation (LoRA), accelerating rollout phase of RL
while reducing memory overhead. Beyond efficiency, our findings show that
quantization noise increases policy entropy, enhancing exploration, and
enabling the discovery of better strategies during RL. To further optimize
exploration, QeRL introduces an Adaptive Quantization Noise (AQN) mechanism,
which dynamically adjusts noise during training. Experiments demonstrate that
QeRL delivers over 1.5 times speedup in the rollout phase. Moreover, this is
the first framework to enable RL training of a 32B LLM on a single H100 80GB
GPU, while delivering overall speedups for RL training. It also achieves faster
reward growth and higher final accuracy than 16-bit LoRA and QLoRA, while
matching the performance of full-parameter fine-tuning on mathematical
benchmarks such as GSM8K (90.8%) and MATH 500 (77.4%) in the 7B model. These
results establish QeRL as an efficient and effective framework for RL training
in LLMs.

## 초록 (Korean)
번역 중 오류 발생: 3번의 시도 후에도 네트워크 연결에 실패했습니다.

--- 2. Diffusion Transformers with Representation Autoencoders ---
Link: https://huggingface.co/papers/2510.11690

## Abstract (Original)
Latent generative modeling, where a pretrained autoencoder maps pixels into a
latent space for the diffusion process, has become the standard strategy for
Diffusion Transformers (DiT); however, the autoencoder component has barely
evolved. Most DiTs continue to rely on the original VAE encoder, which
introduces several limitations: outdated backbones that compromise
architectural simplicity, low-dimensional latent spaces that restrict
information capacity, and weak representations that result from purely
reconstruction-based training and ultimately limit generative quality. In this
work, we explore replacing the VAE with pretrained representation encoders
(e.g., DINO, SigLIP, MAE) paired with trained decoders, forming what we term
Representation Autoencoders (RAEs). These models provide both high-quality
reconstructions and semantically rich latent spaces, while allowing for a
scalable transformer-based architecture. Since these latent spaces are
typically high-dimensional, a key challenge is enabling diffusion transformers
to operate effectively within them. We analyze the sources of this difficulty,
propose theoretically motivated solutions, and validate them empirically. Our
approach achieves faster convergence without auxiliary representation alignment
losses. Using a DiT variant equipped with a lightweight, wide DDT head, we
achieve strong image generation results on ImageNet: 1.51 FID at 256x256 (no
guidance) and 1.13 at both 256x256 and 512x512 (with guidance). RAE offers
clear advantages and should be the new default for diffusion transformer
training.

## 초록 (Korean)
번역 중 오류 발생: 3번의 시도 후에도 네트워크 연결에 실패했습니다.

--- 3. Spatial Forcing: Implicit Spatial Representation Alignment for
  Vision-language-action Model ---
Link: https://huggingface.co/papers/2510.12276

## Abstract (Original)
Vision-language-action (VLA) models have recently shown strong potential in
enabling robots to follow language instructions and execute precise actions.
However, most VLAs are built upon vision-language models pretrained solely on
2D data, which lack accurate spatial awareness and hinder their ability to
operate in the 3D physical world. Existing solutions attempt to incorporate
explicit 3D sensor inputs such as depth maps or point clouds, but these
approaches face challenges due to sensor noise, hardware heterogeneity, and
incomplete depth coverage in existing datasets. Alternative methods that
estimate 3D cues from 2D images also suffer from the limited performance of
depth estimators.We propose Spatial Forcing (SF), a simple yet effective
alignment strategy that implicitly forces VLA models to develop spatial
comprehension capabilities without relying on explicit 3D inputs or depth
estimators. SF aligns intermediate visual embeddings of VLAs with geometric
representations produced by pretrained 3D foundation models. By enforcing
alignment at intermediate layers, SF guides VLAs to encode richer spatial
representations that enhance action precision.Extensive experiments in
simulation and real-world environments demonstrate that SF achieves
state-of-the-art results, surpassing both 2D- and 3D-based VLAs. SF further
accelerates training by up to 3.8x and improves data efficiency across diverse
robotic tasks. Project page is at https://spatial-forcing.github.io/

## 초록 (Korean)
번역 중 오류 발생: 3번의 시도 후에도 네트워크 연결에 실패했습니다.

--- 4. D2E: Scaling Vision-Action Pretraining on Desktop Data for Transfer to
  Embodied AI ---
Link: https://huggingface.co/papers/2510.05684

## Abstract (Original)
Large language models leverage internet-scale text data, yet embodied AI
remains constrained by the prohibitive costs of physical trajectory collection.
Desktop environments -- particularly gaming -- offer a compelling alternative:
they provide rich sensorimotor interactions at scale while maintaining the
structured observation-action coupling essential for embodied learning. We
present D2E (Desktop to Embodied AI), a framework that demonstrates desktop
interactions can serve as an effective pretraining substrate for robotics
embodied AI tasks. Unlike prior work that remained domain-specific (e.g., VPT
for Minecraft) or kept data proprietary (e.g., SIMA), D2E establishes a
complete pipeline from scalable desktop data collection to verified transfer in
embodied domains. Our framework comprises three components: (1) the OWA Toolkit
that unifies diverse desktop interactions into a standardized format with 152x
compression, (2) the Generalist-IDM that achieves strong zero-shot
generalization across unseen games through timestamp-based event prediction,
enabling internet-scale pseudo-labeling, and (3) VAPT that transfers
desktop-pretrained representations to physical manipulation and navigation.
Using 1.3K+ hours of data (259 hours of human demonstrations, and 1K+ hours of
pseudo-labeled gameplay), we achieve a total of 96.6% success rate on LIBERO
manipulation and 83.3% on CANVAS navigation benchmarks. This validates that
sensorimotor primitives in digital interactions exhibit sufficient invariance
to transfer meaningfully to physical embodied tasks, establishing desktop
pretraining as a practical paradigm for robotics. We will make all our work
public, including the OWA toolkit, datasets of human-collected and
pseudo-labeled, and VAPT-trained models available at
https://worv-ai.github.io/d2e/

## 초록 (Korean)
번역 중 오류 발생: 3번의 시도 후에도 네트워크 연결에 실패했습니다.

--- 5. Thinking with Camera: A Unified Multimodal Model for Camera-Centric
  Understanding and Generation ---
Link: https://huggingface.co/papers/2510.08673

## Abstract (Original)
Camera-centric understanding and generation are two cornerstones of spatial
intelligence, yet they are typically studied in isolation. We present Puffin, a
unified camera-centric multimodal model that extends spatial awareness along
the camera dimension. Puffin integrates language regression and diffusion-based
generation to interpret and create scenes from arbitrary viewpoints. To bridge
the modality gap between cameras and vision-language, we introduce a novel
paradigm that treats camera as language, enabling thinking with camera. This
guides the model to align spatially grounded visual cues with photographic
terminology while reasoning across geometric context. Puffin is trained on
Puffin-4M, a large-scale dataset of 4 million vision-language-camera triplets.
We incorporate both global camera parameters and pixel-wise camera maps,
yielding flexible and reliable spatial generation. Experiments demonstrate
Puffin superior performance over specialized models for camera-centric
generation and understanding. With instruction tuning, Puffin generalizes to
diverse cross-view tasks such as spatial imagination, world exploration, and
photography guidance. We will release the code, models, dataset pipeline, and
benchmark to advance multimodal spatial intelligence research.

## 초록 (Korean)
번역 중 오류 발생: 3번의 시도 후에도 네트워크 연결에 실패했습니다.

--- 6. When Models Lie, We Learn: Multilingual Span-Level Hallucination
  Detection with PsiloQA ---
Link: https://huggingface.co/papers/2510.04849

## Abstract (Original)
Hallucination detection remains a fundamental challenge for the safe and
reliable deployment of large language models (LLMs), especially in applications
requiring factual accuracy. Existing hallucination benchmarks often operate at
the sequence level and are limited to English, lacking the fine-grained,
multilingual supervision needed for a comprehensive evaluation. In this work,
we introduce PsiloQA, a large-scale, multilingual dataset annotated with
span-level hallucinations across 14 languages. PsiloQA is constructed through
an automated three-stage pipeline: generating question-answer pairs from
Wikipedia using GPT-4o, eliciting potentially hallucinated answers from diverse
LLMs in a no-context setting, and automatically annotating hallucinated spans
using GPT-4o by comparing against golden answers and retrieved context. We
evaluate a wide range of hallucination detection methods -- including
uncertainty quantification, LLM-based tagging, and fine-tuned encoder models --
and show that encoder-based models achieve the strongest performance across
languages. Furthermore, PsiloQA demonstrates effective cross-lingual
generalization and supports robust knowledge transfer to other benchmarks, all
while being significantly more cost-efficient than human-annotated datasets.
Our dataset and results advance the development of scalable, fine-grained
hallucination detection in multilingual settings.

## 초록 (Korean)
번역 중 오류 발생: 3번의 시도 후에도 네트워크 연결에 실패했습니다.

--- 7. Advancing End-to-End Pixel Space Generative Modeling via Self-supervised
  Pre-training ---
Link: https://huggingface.co/papers/2510.12586

## Abstract (Original)
Pixel-space generative models are often more difficult to train and generally
underperform compared to their latent-space counterparts, leaving a persistent
performance and efficiency gap. In this paper, we introduce a novel two-stage
training framework that closes this gap for pixel-space diffusion and
consistency models. In the first stage, we pre-train encoders to capture
meaningful semantics from clean images while aligning them with points along
the same deterministic sampling trajectory, which evolves points from the prior
to the data distribution. In the second stage, we integrate the encoder with a
randomly initialized decoder and fine-tune the complete model end-to-end for
both diffusion and consistency models. Our training framework demonstrates
strong empirical performance on ImageNet dataset. Specifically, our diffusion
model reaches an FID of 2.04 on ImageNet-256 and 2.35 on ImageNet-512 with 75
number of function evaluations (NFE), surpassing prior pixel-space methods by a
large margin in both generation quality and efficiency while rivaling leading
VAE-based models at comparable training cost. Furthermore, on ImageNet-256, our
consistency model achieves an impressive FID of 8.82 in a single sampling step,
significantly surpassing its latent-space counterpart. To the best of our
knowledge, this marks the first successful training of a consistency model
directly on high-resolution images without relying on pre-trained VAEs or
diffusion models.

## 초록 (Korean)
번역 중 오류 발생: 3번의 시도 후에도 네트워크 연결에 실패했습니다.

--- 8. Agentic Entropy-Balanced Policy Optimization ---
Link: https://huggingface.co/papers/2510.14545

## Abstract (Original)
Recently, Agentic Reinforcement Learning (Agentic RL) has made significant
progress in incentivizing the multi-turn, long-horizon tool-use capabilities of
web agents. While mainstream agentic RL algorithms autonomously explore
high-uncertainty tool-call steps under the guidance of entropy, excessive
reliance on entropy signals can impose further constraints, leading to the
training collapse. In this paper, we delve into the challenges caused by
entropy and propose the Agentic Entropy-Balanced Policy Optimization (AEPO), an
agentic RL algorithm designed to balance entropy in both the rollout and policy
update phases. AEPO comprises two core components: (1) a dynamic
entropy-balanced rollout mechanism that adaptively allocate global and branch
sampling budget through entropy pre-monitoring, while imposing a branch penalty
on consecutive high-entropy tool-call steps to prevent over-branching issues;
and (2) Entropy-Balanced Policy Optimization that inserts a stop-gradient
operation into the high-entropy clipping term to preserve and properly rescale
gradients on high-entropy tokens, while incorporating entropy-aware advantage
estimation to prioritize learning on high-uncertainty tokens. Results across 14
challenging datasets show that AEPO consistently outperforms 7 mainstream RL
algorithms. With just 1K RL samples, Qwen3-14B with AEPO achieves impressive
results: 47.6% on GAIA, 11.2% on Humanity's Last Exam, and 43.0% on WebWalker
for Pass@1; 65.0% on GAIA, 26.0% on Humanity's Last Exam, and 70.0% on
WebWalker for Pass@5. Further analysis reveals that AEPO improves rollout
sampling diversity while maintaining stable policy entropy, facilitating
scalable web agent training.

## 초록 (Korean)
번역 중 오류 발생: 3번의 시도 후에도 네트워크 연결에 실패했습니다.

--- 9. Scaling Language-Centric Omnimodal Representation Learning ---
Link: https://huggingface.co/papers/2510.11693

## Abstract (Original)
Recent multimodal embedding approaches leveraging multimodal large language
models (MLLMs) fine-tuned with contrastive learning (CL) have shown promising
results, yet the underlying reasons behind their superiority remain
underexplored. This work argues that a crucial advantage of MLLM-based
approaches stems from implicit cross-modal alignment achieved during generative
pretraining, where the language decoder learns to exploit multimodal signals
within a shared representation space for generating unimodal outputs. Through
analysis of anisotropy and kernel similarity structure, we empirically confirm
that latent alignment emerges within MLLM representations, allowing CL to serve
as a lightweight refinement stage. Leveraging this insight, we propose a
Language-Centric Omnimodal Embedding framework, termed LCO-Emb. Extensive
experiments across diverse backbones and benchmarks demonstrate its
effectiveness, achieving state-of-the-art performance across modalities.
Furthermore, we identify a Generation-Representation Scaling Law (GRSL),
showing that the representational capabilities gained through contrastive
refinement scales positively with the MLLM's generative capabilities. This
suggests that improving generative abilities evolves as an effective paradigm
for enhancing representation quality. We provide a theoretical explanation of
GRSL, which formally links the MLLM's generative quality to the upper bound on
its representation performance, and validate it on a challenging, low-resource
visual-document retrieval task, showing that continual generative pretraining
before CL can further enhance the potential of a model's embedding
capabilities. Codes, models, and resources are available at
https://github.com/LCO-Embedding/LCO-Embedding.

## 초록 (Korean)
번역 중 오류 발생: 3번의 시도 후에도 네트워크 연결에 실패했습니다.

--- 10. DITING: A Multi-Agent Evaluation Framework for Benchmarking Web Novel
  Translation ---
Link: https://huggingface.co/papers/2510.09116

## Abstract (Original)
Large language models (LLMs) have substantially advanced machine translation
(MT), yet their effectiveness in translating web novels remains unclear.
Existing benchmarks rely on surface-level metrics that fail to capture the
distinctive traits of this genre. To address these gaps, we introduce DITING,
the first comprehensive evaluation framework for web novel translation,
assessing narrative and cultural fidelity across six dimensions: idiom
translation, lexical ambiguity, terminology localization, tense consistency,
zero-pronoun resolution, and cultural safety, supported by over 18K
expert-annotated Chinese-English sentence pairs. We further propose AgentEval,
a reasoning-driven multi-agent evaluation framework that simulates expert
deliberation to assess translation quality beyond lexical overlap, achieving
the highest correlation with human judgments among seven tested automatic
metrics. To enable metric comparison, we develop MetricAlign, a meta-evaluation
dataset of 300 sentence pairs annotated with error labels and scalar quality
scores. Comprehensive evaluation of fourteen open, closed, and commercial
models reveals that Chinese-trained LLMs surpass larger foreign counterparts,
and that DeepSeek-V3 delivers the most faithful and stylistically coherent
translations. Our work establishes a new paradigm for exploring LLM-based web
novel translation and provides public resources to advance future research.

## 초록 (Korean)
번역 중 오류 발생: 3번의 시도 후에도 네트워크 연결에 실패했습니다.

