Hugging Face 주간 인기 논문 Top 10 (2025-W34) - 번역본
출처: https://huggingface.co/papers/week/2025-W34

--- 1. Intern-S1: A Scientific Multimodal Foundation Model ---
Link: https://huggingface.co/papers/2508.15763

## Abstract (Original)
In recent years, a plethora of open-source foundation models have emerged,
achieving remarkable progress in some widely attended fields, with performance
being quite close to that of closed-source models. However, in high-value but
more challenging scientific professional fields, either the fields still rely
on expert models, or the progress of general foundation models lags
significantly compared to those in popular areas, far from sufficient for
transforming scientific research and leaving substantial gap between
open-source models and closed-source models in these scientific domains. To
mitigate this gap and explore a step further toward Artificial General
Intelligence (AGI), we introduce Intern-S1, a specialized generalist equipped
with general understanding and reasoning capabilities with expertise to analyze
multiple science modal data. Intern-S1 is a multimodal Mixture-of-Experts (MoE)
model with 28 billion activated parameters and 241 billion total parameters,
continually pre-trained on 5T tokens, including over 2.5T tokens from
scientific domains. In the post-training stage, Intern-S1 undergoes offline and
then online reinforcement learning (RL) in InternBootCamp, where we propose
Mixture-of-Rewards (MoR) to synergize the RL training on more than 1000 tasks
simultaneously. Through integrated innovations in algorithms, data, and
training systems, Intern-S1 achieved top-tier performance in online RL
training.On comprehensive evaluation benchmarks, Intern-S1 demonstrates
competitive performance on general reasoning tasks among open-source models and
significantly outperforms open-source models in scientific domains, surpassing
closed-source state-of-the-art models in professional tasks, such as molecular
synthesis planning, reaction condition prediction, predicting thermodynamic
stabilities for crystals. Our models are available at
https://huggingface.co/internlm/Intern-S1.

## 초록 (Korean)
번역 중 오류 발생: 3번의 시도 후에도 네트워크 연결에 실패했습니다.

--- 2. DINOv3 ---
Link: https://huggingface.co/papers/2508.10104

## Abstract (Original)
Self-supervised learning holds the promise of eliminating the need for manual
data annotation, enabling models to scale effortlessly to massive datasets and
larger architectures. By not being tailored to specific tasks or domains, this
training paradigm has the potential to learn visual representations from
diverse sources, ranging from natural to aerial images -- using a single
algorithm. This technical report introduces DINOv3, a major milestone toward
realizing this vision by leveraging simple yet effective strategies. First, we
leverage the benefit of scaling both dataset and model size by careful data
preparation, design, and optimization. Second, we introduce a new method called
Gram anchoring, which effectively addresses the known yet unsolved issue of
dense feature maps degrading during long training schedules. Finally, we apply
post-hoc strategies that further enhance our models' flexibility with respect
to resolution, model size, and alignment with text. As a result, we present a
versatile vision foundation model that outperforms the specialized state of the
art across a broad range of settings, without fine-tuning. DINOv3 produces
high-quality dense features that achieve outstanding performance on various
vision tasks, significantly surpassing previous self- and weakly-supervised
foundation models. We also share the DINOv3 suite of vision models, designed to
advance the state of the art on a wide spectrum of tasks and data by providing
scalable solutions for diverse resource constraints and deployment scenarios.

## 초록 (Korean)
번역 중 오류 발생: 3번의 시도 후에도 네트워크 연결에 실패했습니다.

--- 3. Chain-of-Agents: End-to-End Agent Foundation Models via Multi-Agent
  Distillation and Agentic RL ---
Link: https://huggingface.co/papers/2508.13167

## Abstract (Original)
Recent advances in large language models (LLMs) and multi-agent systems have
demonstrated remarkable capabilities in complex problem-solving tasks such as
deep research, vibe coding, and mathematical reasoning. However, most existing
multi-agent systems are built upon manual prompt/workflow engineering with
sophisticated agent frameworks, making them computationally inefficient, less
capable, and can not benefit from data-centric learning. In this work, we
introduce Chain-of-Agents (CoA), a novel paradigm of LLM reasoning that enables
native end-to-end complex problem-solving in the same way as a multi-agent
system (i.e., multi-turn problem solving with multiple tools and multiple
agents) within one model. In chain-of-agents problem-solving, the model
dynamically activates different tool agents and role-playing agents to simulate
multi-agent collaboration in an end-to-end fashion. To elicit end-to-end
chain-of-agents problem-solving abilities in LLMs, we introduce a multi-agent
distillation framework to distill state-of-the-art multi-agent systems into
chain-of-agents trajectories for agentic supervised fine-tuning. We then use
agentic reinforcement learning on verifiable agentic tasks to further improve
the models' capabilities on chain-of-agents problem solving. We call the
resulting models Agent Foundation Models (AFMs). Our empirical studies
demonstrate that AFM establishes new state-of-the-art performance across
diverse benchmarks in both web agent and code agent settings. We make the
entire research, including the model weights, code for training and evaluation,
and the training data, fully open-sourced, which offers a solid starting point
for future research on agent models and agentic RL.

## 초록 (Korean)
번역 중 오류 발생: 3번의 시도 후에도 네트워크 연결에 실패했습니다.

--- 4. Ovis2.5 Technical Report ---
Link: https://huggingface.co/papers/2508.11737

## Abstract (Original)
We present Ovis2.5, a successor to Ovis2 designed for native-resolution
visual perception and strong multimodal reasoning. Ovis2.5 integrates a
native-resolution vision transformer that processes images at their native,
variable resolutions, avoiding the degradation from fixed-resolution tiling and
preserving both fine detail and global layout -- crucial for visually dense
content like complex charts. To strengthen reasoning, we train the model to
move beyond linear chain-of-thought and perform reflection -- including
self-checking and revision. This advanced capability is exposed as an optional
"thinking mode" at inference time, allowing users to trade latency for enhanced
accuracy on difficult inputs. The model is trained via a comprehensive
five-phase curriculum that progressively builds its skills. The process begins
with foundational visual and multimodal pretraining, advances through
large-scale instruction tuning, and culminates in alignment and reasoning
enhancement using DPO and GRPO. To scale these upgrades efficiently, we employ
multimodal data packing and hybrid parallelism, yielding a significant
end-to-end speedup. We release two open-source models: Ovis2.5-9B and
Ovis2.5-2B. The latter continues the "small model, big performance" philosophy
of Ovis2, making it ideal for resource-constrained, on-device scenarios. On the
OpenCompass multimodal leaderboard, Ovis2.5-9B averages 78.3, marking a
substantial improvement over its predecessor, Ovis2-8B, and achieving
state-of-the-art results among open-source MLLMs in the sub-40B parameter
range; Ovis2.5-2B scores 73.9, establishing SOTA for its size. Beyond aggregate
scores, Ovis2.5 achieves leading results on STEM benchmarks, exhibits strong
capabilities on grounding and video tasks, and achieves open-source SOTA at its
scale for complex chart analysis.

## 초록 (Korean)
번역 중 오류 발생: 3번의 시도 후에도 네트워크 연결에 실패했습니다.

--- 5. SSRL: Self-Search Reinforcement Learning ---
Link: https://huggingface.co/papers/2508.10874

## Abstract (Original)
We investigate the potential of large language models (LLMs) to serve as
efficient simulators for agentic search tasks in reinforcement learning (RL),
thereby reducing dependence on costly interactions with external search
engines. To this end, we first quantify the intrinsic search capability of LLMs
via structured prompting and repeated sampling, which we term Self-Search. Our
results reveal that LLMs exhibit strong scaling behavior with respect to the
inference budget, achieving high pass@k on question-answering benchmarks,
including the challenging BrowseComp task. Building on these observations, we
introduce Self-Search RL (SSRL), which enhances LLMs' Self-Search capability
through format-based and rule-based rewards. SSRL enables models to iteratively
refine their knowledge utilization internally, without requiring access to
external tools. Empirical evaluations demonstrate that SSRL-trained policy
models provide a cost-effective and stable environment for search-driven RL
training, reducing reliance on external search engines and facilitating robust
sim-to-real transfer. We draw the following conclusions: 1) LLMs possess world
knowledge that can be effectively elicited to achieve high performance; 2) SSRL
demonstrates the potential of leveraging internal knowledge to reduce
hallucination; 3) SSRL-trained models integrate seamlessly with external search
engines without additional effort. Our findings highlight the potential of LLMs
to support more scalable RL agent training.

## 초록 (Korean)
번역 중 오류 발생: 3번의 시도 후에도 네트워크 연결에 실패했습니다.

--- 6. DuPO: Enabling Reliable LLM Self-Verification via Dual Preference
  Optimization ---
Link: https://huggingface.co/papers/2508.14460

## Abstract (Original)
We present DuPO, a dual learning-based preference optimization framework that
generates annotation-free feedback via a generalized duality. DuPO addresses
two key limitations: Reinforcement Learning with Verifiable Rewards (RLVR)'s
reliance on costly labels and applicability restricted to verifiable tasks, and
traditional dual learning's restriction to strictly dual task pairs (e.g.,
translation and back-translation). Specifically, DuPO decomposes a primal
task's input into known and unknown components, then constructs its dual task
to reconstruct the unknown part using the primal output and known information
(e.g., reversing math solutions to recover hidden variables), broadening
applicability to non-invertible tasks. The quality of this reconstruction
serves as a self-supervised reward to optimize the primal task, synergizing
with LLMs' ability to instantiate both tasks via a single model. Empirically,
DuPO achieves substantial gains across diverse tasks: it enhances the average
translation quality by 2.13 COMET over 756 directions, boosts the mathematical
reasoning accuracy by an average of 6.4 points on three challenge benchmarks,
and enhances performance by 9.3 points as an inference-time reranker (trading
computation for accuracy). These results position DuPO as a scalable, general,
and annotation-free paradigm for LLM optimization.

## 초록 (Korean)
번역 중 오류 발생: 3번의 시도 후에도 네트워크 연결에 실패했습니다.

--- 7. Deep Think with Confidence ---
Link: https://huggingface.co/papers/2508.15260

## Abstract (Original)
Large Language Models (LLMs) have shown great potential in reasoning tasks
through test-time scaling methods like self-consistency with majority voting.
However, this approach often leads to diminishing returns in accuracy and high
computational overhead. To address these challenges, we introduce Deep Think
with Confidence (DeepConf), a simple yet powerful method that enhances both
reasoning efficiency and performance at test time. DeepConf leverages
model-internal confidence signals to dynamically filter out low-quality
reasoning traces during or after generation. It requires no additional model
training or hyperparameter tuning and can be seamlessly integrated into
existing serving frameworks. We evaluate DeepConf across a variety of reasoning
tasks and the latest open-source models, including Qwen 3 and GPT-OSS series.
Notably, on challenging benchmarks such as AIME 2025, DeepConf@512 achieves up
to 99.9% accuracy and reduces generated tokens by up to 84.7% compared to full
parallel thinking.

## 초록 (Korean)
번역 중 오류 발생: 3번의 시도 후에도 네트워크 연결에 실패했습니다.

--- 8. Thyme: Think Beyond Images ---
Link: https://huggingface.co/papers/2508.11630

## Abstract (Original)
Following OpenAI's introduction of the ``thinking with images'' concept,
recent efforts have explored stimulating the use of visual information in the
reasoning process to enhance model performance in perception and reasoning
tasks. However, to the best of our knowledge, no open-source work currently
offers a feature set as rich as proprietary models (O3), which can perform
diverse image manipulations and simultaneously enhance logical reasoning
capabilities through code. In this paper, we make a preliminary attempt in this
direction by introducing Thyme (Think Beyond Images), a novel paradigm for
enabling MLLMs to transcend existing ``think with images'' approaches by
autonomously generating and executing diverse image processing and
computational operations via executable code. This approach not only
facilitates a rich, on-the-fly set of image manipulations (e.g., cropping,
rotation, contrast enhancement) but also allows for mathematical computations,
all while maintaining high autonomy in deciding when and how to apply these
operations. We activate this capability through a two-stage training strategy:
an initial SFT on a curated dataset of 500K samples to teach code generation,
followed by a RL phase to refine decision-making. For the RL stage, we manually
collect and design high-resolution question-answer pairs to increase the
learning difficulty, and we propose GRPO-ATS (Group Relative Policy
Optimization with Adaptive Temperature Sampling), an algorithm that applies
distinct temperatures to text and code generation to balance reasoning
exploration with code execution precision. We conduct extensive experimental
analysis and ablation studies. Comprehensive evaluations on nearly 20
benchmarks show that Thyme yields significant and consistent performance gains,
particularly in challenging high-resolution perception and complex reasoning
tasks.

## 초록 (Korean)
번역 중 오류 발생: 3번의 시도 후에도 네트워크 연결에 실패했습니다.

--- 9. ComoRAG: A Cognitive-Inspired Memory-Organized RAG for Stateful Long
  Narrative Reasoning ---
Link: https://huggingface.co/papers/2508.10419

## Abstract (Original)
Narrative comprehension on long stories and novels has been a challenging
domain attributed to their intricate plotlines and entangled, often evolving
relations among characters and entities. Given the LLM's diminished reasoning
over extended context and high computational cost, retrieval-based approaches
remain a pivotal role in practice. However, traditional RAG methods can fall
short due to their stateless, single-step retrieval process, which often
overlooks the dynamic nature of capturing interconnected relations within
long-range context. In this work, we propose ComoRAG, holding the principle
that narrative reasoning is not a one-shot process, but a dynamic, evolving
interplay between new evidence acquisition and past knowledge consolidation,
analogous to human cognition when reasoning with memory-related signals in the
brain. Specifically, when encountering a reasoning impasse, ComoRAG undergoes
iterative reasoning cycles while interacting with a dynamic memory workspace.
In each cycle, it generates probing queries to devise new exploratory paths,
then integrates the retrieved evidence of new aspects into a global memory
pool, thereby supporting the emergence of a coherent context for the query
resolution. Across four challenging long-context narrative benchmarks (200K+
tokens), ComoRAG outperforms strong RAG baselines with consistent relative
gains up to 11% compared to the strongest baseline. Further analysis reveals
that ComoRAG is particularly advantageous for complex queries requiring global
comprehension, offering a principled, cognitively motivated paradigm for
retrieval-based long context comprehension towards stateful reasoning. Our code
is publicly released at https://github.com/EternityJune25/ComoRAG

## 초록 (Korean)
번역 중 오류 발생: 3번의 시도 후에도 네트워크 연결에 실패했습니다.

--- 10. MeshCoder: LLM-Powered Structured Mesh Code Generation from Point Clouds ---
Link: https://huggingface.co/papers/2508.14879

## Abstract (Original)
Reconstructing 3D objects into editable programs is pivotal for applications
like reverse engineering and shape editing. However, existing methods often
rely on limited domain-specific languages (DSLs) and small-scale datasets,
restricting their ability to model complex geometries and structures. To
address these challenges, we introduce MeshCoder, a novel framework that
reconstructs complex 3D objects from point clouds into editable Blender Python
scripts. We develop a comprehensive set of expressive Blender Python APIs
capable of synthesizing intricate geometries. Leveraging these APIs, we
construct a large-scale paired object-code dataset, where the code for each
object is decomposed into distinct semantic parts. Subsequently, we train a
multimodal large language model (LLM) that translates 3D point cloud into
executable Blender Python scripts. Our approach not only achieves superior
performance in shape-to-code reconstruction tasks but also facilitates
intuitive geometric and topological editing through convenient code
modifications. Furthermore, our code-based representation enhances the
reasoning capabilities of LLMs in 3D shape understanding tasks. Together, these
contributions establish MeshCoder as a powerful and flexible solution for
programmatic 3D shape reconstruction and understanding.

## 초록 (Korean)
번역 중 오류 발생: 3번의 시도 후에도 네트워크 연결에 실패했습니다.

