Hugging Face 주간 인기 논문 Top 10 (2025-W36) - 번역본
출처: https://huggingface.co/papers/week/2025-W36

--- 1. A.S.E: A Repository-Level Benchmark for Evaluating Security in
  AI-Generated Code ---
Link: https://huggingface.co/papers/2508.18106

## Abstract (Original)
The increasing adoption of large language models (LLMs) in software
engineering necessitates rigorous security evaluation of their generated code.
However, existing benchmarks are inadequate, as they focus on isolated code
snippets, employ unstable evaluation methods that lack reproducibility, and
fail to connect the quality of input context with the security of the output.
To address these gaps, we introduce A.S.E (AI Code Generation Security
Evaluation), a benchmark for repository-level secure code generation. A.S.E
constructs tasks from real-world repositories with documented CVEs, preserving
full repository context like build systems and cross-file dependencies. Its
reproducible, containerized evaluation framework uses expert-defined rules to
provide stable, auditable assessments of security, build quality, and
generation stability. Our evaluation of leading LLMs on A.S.E reveals three key
findings: (1) Claude-3.7-Sonnet achieves the best overall performance. (2) The
security gap between proprietary and open-source models is narrow;
Qwen3-235B-A22B-Instruct attains the top security score. (3) Concise,
``fast-thinking'' decoding strategies consistently outperform complex,
``slow-thinking'' reasoning for security patching.

## 초록 (Korean)
번역 중 오류 발생: 3번의 시도 후에도 네트워크 연결에 실패했습니다.

--- 2. Drivel-ology: Challenging LLMs with Interpreting Nonsense with Depth ---
Link: https://huggingface.co/papers/2509.03867

## Abstract (Original)
We introduce Drivelology, a unique linguistic phenomenon characterised as
"nonsense with depth", utterances that are syntactically coherent yet
pragmatically paradoxical, emotionally loaded, or rhetorically subversive.
While such expressions may resemble surface-level nonsense, they encode
implicit meaning requiring contextual inference, moral reasoning, or emotional
interpretation. We find that current large language models (LLMs), despite
excelling at many natural language processing (NLP) tasks, consistently fail to
grasp the layered semantics of Drivelological text. To investigate this, we
construct a small but diverse benchmark dataset of over 1,200 meticulously
curated examples, with select instances in English, Mandarin, Spanish, French,
Japanese, and Korean. Annotation was especially challenging: each of the
examples required careful expert review to verify that it truly reflected
Drivelological characteristics. The process involved multiple rounds of
discussion and adjudication to address disagreements, highlighting the subtle
and subjective nature of the Drivelology. We evaluate a range of LLMs on
classification, generation, and reasoning tasks. Our results reveal clear
limitations of LLMs: models often confuse Drivelology with shallow nonsense,
produce incoherent justifications, or miss the implied rhetorical function
altogether. These findings highlight a deeper representational gap in LLMs'
pragmatic understanding and challenge the assumption that statistical fluency
implies cognitive comprehension. We release our dataset and code to facilitate
further research in modelling linguistic depth beyond surface-level coherence.

## 초록 (Korean)
번역 중 오류 발생: 3번의 시도 후에도 네트워크 연결에 실패했습니다.

--- 3. The Landscape of Agentic Reinforcement Learning for LLMs: A Survey ---
Link: https://huggingface.co/papers/2509.02547

## Abstract (Original)
The emergence of agentic reinforcement learning (Agentic RL) marks a paradigm
shift from conventional reinforcement learning applied to large language models
(LLM RL), reframing LLMs from passive sequence generators into autonomous,
decision-making agents embedded in complex, dynamic worlds. This survey
formalizes this conceptual shift by contrasting the degenerate single-step
Markov Decision Processes (MDPs) of LLM-RL with the temporally extended,
partially observable Markov decision processes (POMDPs) that define Agentic RL.
Building on this foundation, we propose a comprehensive twofold taxonomy: one
organized around core agentic capabilities, including planning, tool use,
memory, reasoning, self-improvement, and perception, and the other around their
applications across diverse task domains. Central to our thesis is that
reinforcement learning serves as the critical mechanism for transforming these
capabilities from static, heuristic modules into adaptive, robust agentic
behavior. To support and accelerate future research, we consolidate the
landscape of open-source environments, benchmarks, and frameworks into a
practical compendium. By synthesizing over five hundred recent works, this
survey charts the contours of this rapidly evolving field and highlights the
opportunities and challenges that will shape the development of scalable,
general-purpose AI agents.

## 초록 (Korean)
번역 중 오류 발생: 3번의 시도 후에도 네트워크 연결에 실패했습니다.

--- 4. A Survey of Scientific Large Language Models: From Data Foundations to
  Agent Frontiers ---
Link: https://huggingface.co/papers/2508.21148

## Abstract (Original)
Scientific Large Language Models (Sci-LLMs) are transforming how knowledge is
represented, integrated, and applied in scientific research, yet their progress
is shaped by the complex nature of scientific data. This survey presents a
comprehensive, data-centric synthesis that reframes the development of Sci-LLMs
as a co-evolution between models and their underlying data substrate. We
formulate a unified taxonomy of scientific data and a hierarchical model of
scientific knowledge, emphasizing the multimodal, cross-scale, and
domain-specific challenges that differentiate scientific corpora from general
natural language processing datasets. We systematically review recent Sci-LLMs,
from general-purpose foundations to specialized models across diverse
scientific disciplines, alongside an extensive analysis of over 270
pre-/post-training datasets, showing why Sci-LLMs pose distinct demands --
heterogeneous, multi-scale, uncertainty-laden corpora that require
representations preserving domain invariance and enabling cross-modal
reasoning. On evaluation, we examine over 190 benchmark datasets and trace a
shift from static exams toward process- and discovery-oriented assessments with
advanced evaluation protocols. These data-centric analyses highlight persistent
issues in scientific data development and discuss emerging solutions involving
semi-automated annotation pipelines and expert validation. Finally, we outline
a paradigm shift toward closed-loop systems where autonomous agents based on
Sci-LLMs actively experiment, validate, and contribute to a living, evolving
knowledge base. Collectively, this work provides a roadmap for building
trustworthy, continually evolving artificial intelligence (AI) systems that
function as a true partner in accelerating scientific discovery.

## 초록 (Korean)
번역 중 오류 발생: 3번의 시도 후에도 네트워크 연결에 실패했습니다.

--- 5. UI-TARS-2 Technical Report: Advancing GUI Agent with Multi-Turn
  Reinforcement Learning ---
Link: https://huggingface.co/papers/2509.02544

## Abstract (Original)
The development of autonomous agents for graphical user interfaces (GUIs)
presents major challenges in artificial intelligence. While recent advances in
native agent models have shown promise by unifying perception, reasoning,
action, and memory through end-to-end learning, open problems remain in data
scalability, multi-turn reinforcement learning (RL), the limitations of
GUI-only operation, and environment stability. In this technical report, we
present UI-TARS-2, a native GUI-centered agent model that addresses these
challenges through a systematic training methodology: a data flywheel for
scalable data generation, a stabilized multi-turn RL framework, a hybrid GUI
environment that integrates file systems and terminals, and a unified sandbox
platform for large-scale rollouts. Empirical evaluation demonstrates that
UI-TARS-2 achieves significant improvements over its predecessor UI-TARS-1.5.
On GUI benchmarks, it reaches 88.2 on Online-Mind2Web, 47.5 on OSWorld, 50.6 on
WindowsAgentArena, and 73.3 on AndroidWorld, outperforming strong baselines
such as Claude and OpenAI agents. In game environments, it attains a mean
normalized score of 59.8 across a 15-game suite-roughly 60% of human-level
performance-and remains competitive with frontier proprietary models (e.g.,
OpenAI o3) on LMGame-Bench. Additionally, the model can generalize to
long-horizon information-seeking tasks and software engineering benchmarks,
highlighting its robustness across diverse agent tasks. Detailed analyses of
training dynamics further provide insights into achieving stability and
efficiency in large-scale agent RL. These results underscore UI-TARS-2's
potential to advance the state of GUI agents and exhibit strong generalization
to real-world interactive scenarios.

## 초록 (Korean)
번역 중 오류 발생: 3번의 시도 후에도 네트워크 연결에 실패했습니다.

--- 6. R-4B: Incentivizing General-Purpose Auto-Thinking Capability in MLLMs
  via Bi-Mode Annealing and Reinforce Learning ---
Link: https://huggingface.co/papers/2508.21113

## Abstract (Original)
Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLMs) equipped with step-by-step thinking
capabilities have demonstrated remarkable performance on complex reasoning
problems. However, this thinking process is redundant for simple problems
solvable without complex reasoning. To address this inefficiency, we propose
R-4B, an auto-thinking MLLM, which can adaptively decide when to think based on
problem complexity. The central idea of R-4B is to empower the model with both
thinking and non-thinking capabilities using bi-mode annealing, and apply
Bi-mode Policy Optimization~(BPO) to improve the model's accuracy in
determining whether to activate the thinking process. Specifically, we first
train the model on a carefully curated dataset spanning various topics, which
contains samples from both thinking and non-thinking modes. Then it undergoes a
second phase of training under an improved GRPO framework, where the policy
model is forced to generate responses from both modes for each input query.
Experimental results show that R-4B achieves state-of-the-art performance
across 25 challenging benchmarks. It outperforms Qwen2.5-VL-7B in most tasks
and achieves performance comparable to larger models such as
Kimi-VL-A3B-Thinking-2506 (16B) on reasoning-intensive benchmarks with lower
computational cost.

## 초록 (Korean)
번역 중 오류 발생: 3번의 시도 후에도 네트워크 연결에 실패했습니다.

--- 7. From Editor to Dense Geometry Estimator ---
Link: https://huggingface.co/papers/2509.04338

## Abstract (Original)
Leveraging visual priors from pre-trained text-to-image (T2I) generative
models has shown success in dense prediction. However, dense prediction is
inherently an image-to-image task, suggesting that image editing models, rather
than T2I generative models, may be a more suitable foundation for fine-tuning.
  Motivated by this, we conduct a systematic analysis of the fine-tuning
behaviors of both editors and generators for dense geometry estimation. Our
findings show that editing models possess inherent structural priors, which
enable them to converge more stably by ``refining" their innate features, and
ultimately achieve higher performance than their generative counterparts.
  Based on these findings, we introduce FE2E, a framework that
pioneeringly adapts an advanced editing model based on Diffusion Transformer
(DiT) architecture for dense geometry prediction. Specifically, to tailor the
editor for this deterministic task, we reformulate the editor's original flow
matching loss into the ``consistent velocity" training objective. And we use
logarithmic quantization to resolve the precision conflict between the editor's
native BFloat16 format and the high precision demand of our tasks.
Additionally, we leverage the DiT's global attention for a cost-free joint
estimation of depth and normals in a single forward pass, enabling their
supervisory signals to mutually enhance each other.
  Without scaling up the training data, FE2E achieves impressive performance
improvements in zero-shot monocular depth and normal estimation across multiple
datasets. Notably, it achieves over 35\% performance gains on the ETH3D dataset
and outperforms the DepthAnything series, which is trained on 100times data.
The project page can be accessed https://amap-ml.github.io/FE2E/{here}.

## 초록 (Korean)
번역 중 오류 발생: 3번의 시도 후에도 네트워크 연결에 실패했습니다.

--- 8. SimpleTIR: End-to-End Reinforcement Learning for Multi-Turn
  Tool-Integrated Reasoning ---
Link: https://huggingface.co/papers/2509.02479

## Abstract (Original)
Large Language Models (LLMs) can significantly improve their reasoning
capabilities by interacting with external tools, a paradigm known as
Tool-Integrated Reasoning (TIR). However, extending TIR to multi-turn scenarios
using Reinforcement Learning (RL) is often hindered by training instability and
performance collapse. We identify that such instability is primarily caused by
a distributional drift from external tool feedback, leading to the generation
of low-probability tokens. This issue compounds over successive turns, causing
catastrophic gradient norm explosions that derail the training process. To
address this challenge, we introduce SimpleTIR , a plug-and-play algorithm that
stabilizes multi-turn TIR training. Its core strategy is to identify and filter
out trajectories containing void turns, i.e., turns that yield neither a code
block nor a final answer. By removing these problematic trajectories from the
policy update, SimpleTIR effectively blocks the harmful, high-magnitude
gradients, thus stabilizing the learning dynamics. Extensive experiments show
that SimpleTIR achieves state-of-the-art performance on challenging math
reasoning benchmarks, notably elevating the AIME24 score from a text-only
baseline of 22.1 to 50.5 when starting from the Qwen2.5-7B base model.
Furthermore, by avoiding the constraints of supervised fine-tuning, SimpleTIR
encourages the model to discover diverse and sophisticated reasoning patterns,
such as self-correction and cross-validation.

## 초록 (Korean)
번역 중 오류 발생: 3번의 시도 후에도 네트워크 연결에 실패했습니다.

--- 9. LLaVA-Critic-R1: Your Critic Model is Secretly a Strong Policy Model ---
Link: https://huggingface.co/papers/2509.00676

## Abstract (Original)
In vision-language modeling, critic models are typically trained to evaluate
outputs -- assigning scalar scores or pairwise preferences -- rather than to
generate responses. This separation from policy models, which produce the
responses, is so entrenched that critics are rarely considered for direct
policy use. In this work, we challenge this convention. We propose to
reorganize preference-labeled critic datasets into verifiable training signals
and perform reinforcement learning directly on a base generative model,
producing LLaVA-Critic-R1, a multimodal critic trained to optimize preference
judgments while retaining full generation ability. Surprisingly,
LLaVA-Critic-R1 emerges not only as a top-performing critic but also as a
competitive policy model -- matching or surpassing specialized reasoning VLMs
trained with in-domain data across 26 visual reasoning and understanding
benchmarks, with an average gain of +5.7% over its base model (Qwen-2.5-VL-7B).
Extending this approach to existing strong reasoning VLMs yields
LLaVA-Critic-R1+, which further advances policy performance without sacrificing
critic quality, achieving a SoTA performance of 71.9 on MMMU at the 7B scale.
Finally, we show that the enhanced critic ability benefits inference: applying
self-critique at test time yields an average +13.8% improvement on five
representative reasoning tasks without additional training. Our results reveal
that RL training on critic data can produce a unified model excelling at both
evaluation and generation, offering a simple path toward scalable,
self-improving multimodal systems.

## 초록 (Korean)
번역 중 오류 발생: 3번의 시도 후에도 네트워크 연결에 실패했습니다.

--- 10. EmbodiedOneVision: Interleaved Vision-Text-Action Pretraining for
  General Robot Control ---
Link: https://huggingface.co/papers/2508.21112

## Abstract (Original)
The human ability to seamlessly perform multimodal reasoning and physical
interaction in the open world is a core goal for general-purpose embodied
intelligent systems. Recent vision-language-action (VLA) models, which are
co-trained on large-scale robot and visual-text data, have demonstrated notable
progress in general robot control. However, they still fail to achieve
human-level flexibility in interleaved reasoning and interaction. In this work,
introduce EO-Robotics, consists of EO-1 model and EO-Data1.5M dataset. EO-1 is
a unified embodied foundation model that achieves superior performance in
multimodal embodied reasoning and robot control through interleaved
vision-text-action pre-training. The development of EO-1 is based on two key
pillars: (i) a unified architecture that processes multimodal inputs
indiscriminately (image, text, video, and action), and (ii) a massive,
high-quality multimodal embodied reasoning dataset, EO-Data1.5M, which contains
over 1.5 million samples with emphasis on interleaved vision-text-action
comprehension. EO-1 is trained through synergies between auto-regressive
decoding and flow matching denoising on EO-Data1.5M, enabling seamless robot
action generation and multimodal embodied reasoning. Extensive experiments
demonstrate the effectiveness of interleaved vision-text-action learning for
open-world understanding and generalization, validated through a variety of
long-horizon, dexterous manipulation tasks across multiple embodiments. This
paper details the architecture of EO-1, the data construction strategy of
EO-Data1.5M, and the training methodology, offering valuable insights for
developing advanced embodied foundation models.

## 초록 (Korean)
번역 중 오류 발생: 3번의 시도 후에도 네트워크 연결에 실패했습니다.

